# Where To Find More Info

I'd like to write up a complete reference to the API, but for now, to supplement the samples in this README and the API calls generated by the sample servers (they print the exact API string to the terminal as it is sent), checkout:

`api.js` for how the various API calls are dispatched to the various methods.

I will answer any and all questions about the Pangea API as quickly as I can, just email <tom@hobofife.com>. Thanks.

### Connecting To A Backend Using The WebSocket Protocol

The websocket URI is set in the `pangeapoker.js` file on the `pangea.wsURI` property, ex: `pangea.wsURI = 'ws://localhost:9000'`.

The file ./client/server.py contains an example server listening for web socket connections, using the ws4py module.

`server = make_server('', 9000, server_class=WSGIServer,
                     handler_class=WebSocketWSGIRequestHandler,
                     app=WebSocketWSGIApplication(handler_cls=myserver))`

So just make sure that the server's URI is the same that the Pangea frontend expects, and the frontend will connect to it when the page loads.

The example server is single threaded, so don't get confused by that if you use it and the frontend doesn't connect... another window might already be connected to it.

### API Basics & Setting Up A Game

The list of available API calls is in the `pangea.onMessage` method:

```
pangea.onMessage = function(message){
  var handlers = {'action':pangea.API.action, 'game':pangea.API.game,    'seats':pangea.API.seats, 'player':pangea.API.player, 'deal':pangea.API.deal, 'chat':pangea.API.chat, 'setup':pangea.API.setup}
  message = JSON.parse(message)
  console.log('Recieved: ', message)
  for (var key in message){
    if (message.hasOwnProperty(key)){
      var handler = handlers[key]
      handler(message[key])
    }
  }
}
```

The keys of the `handlers` associative array make up the valid API calls. To expand the API, simply add a new handler and specify the method for it to call.

As described in the YouTube videos, some of the API verbs simply allow for updating associative arrays in the `pangea` object. This is how a game is set up.

All of the properties of `pangea.game` are found in `game.js`:

Example:
```
pangea.game.gametype = "NL Hold'em<br>Blinds: 3/6"
pangea.game.pot = [0]  // List of pots and side pots
pangea.game.bigblind = 6
pangea.game.seats = 9 // 2, 6 and 9 configurations available
```

So to setup a game, the backend sends a JSON string with the API call 'game', followed by an assoc. array setting game properties. The API is 'update only', i.e. any property not set by the API will remain in it's current state. So to set the pot to zero, {'game':{'pot':[0]}} must be sent to the frontend from the server.

*Reminder:* "Setting the pot to zero" on the frontend does not change the game in any way, it is simply a display. The actual pot amount must be kept up to date on the backend. Everything on the frontend is purely an interface and all constraints, etc. must be enforced by the server.

### API Calls For A Hand Of Poker

Writing the JSON for the API calls by hand would be a nightmare, you never want to do that. I'll be using JSON generated for the sample  server by the functions in `sample_games.py`. The JSON string is created by the json.dumps() method of the built-in json lib.

* Setup Game

`{"game": {"tocall": 0, "pot": [0], "bigblind": 3, "gametype": "NL Hold'em<br>Blinds: 3/6"}}`

* Add Seat Information (Players) To Table

The players don't need to be added all at once like this. The API works the same whether upating 1 seat or all 9. Any number of seats and properties can be updated.

`{"seats": [{"name": "espasasp4", "seat": 0, "stack": 563.67, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "aikokj", "seat": 1, "stack": 397.32, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "hondan87", "seat": 2, "stack": 712.93, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "mietlicada", "seat": 3, "stack": 93.83, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "outflowbs", "seat": 4, "stack": 197.88, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "duvaye62", "seat": 5, "stack": 66.82, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "possano9s", "seat": 6, "stack": 285.65, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "fliblySnallbr", "seat": 7, "stack": 254.9, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}, {"name": "oklepankal6", "seat": 8, "stack": 2.34, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}]}`

For example, just one player:

`{"seats": [{"name": "espasasp4", "seat": 0, "stack": 563.67, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}]}`

...and then another:

`{"seats": [{"name": "fliblySnallbr", "seat": 7, "stack": 254.9, "empty": 0, "playing": 1}]}`

The 'seats' value does need to be a list of seats, even if updating only one seat.

* Join A Game

`{"player": {"sitting": 1, "stack": 504.88, "seat": 1}}`

In addition to updating the player object, the seat (seat 1 in this case) needs to be updated too.

`{"seats": [{"player": 1, "name": "LauraPalmer", "playercards": null, "playing": 1, "stack": 504.88, "empty": 0, "seat": 1}]}`

I apologize for including silly properties like 'sitting' and 'player', but they are used right now to manage various states of the seat information elements.

* Dealing And Betting

First, the holecards:

`{"deal": {"holecards": [null, null], "dealer": 0}}`

"dealer" specifies where to place the dealer button. The dealing animation will start with the following occupied seat.

Check;

`{"seats": [{"action": "<span>Check<br></span>", "bet": 0, "seat": 2}]}`

When the player bets, we update the seat infomation, and also the game info for the pot and the "to call" amount:

Bet:

`{"game": {"tocall": 6, "pot": ["6"]}, "seats": [{"action": "<span>Bet<br>6</span>", "bet": 6, "seat": 0}]}`

The 'action' property of the seat displays a status bar on top of the seat. An empty string will clear the status bar. This should probably be renamed to 'status' avoid confusion.

Fold:

`{"action": {"returnPlayerCards": "1"}, "seats": [{"action": "<span>Fold</span>", "seat": 1}]}`

The 'action' API call is used to return player cards to the deck, move chips to the pot, and move chips to a player.

Call:

`{"game": {"pot": ["12"]}, "seats": [{"action": "<span>Call<br>6</span>", "bet": 6, "seat": 2}, {"action": "", "seat": 1}]}`

Raise:

`{"game": {"tocall": 24, "pot": ["42"]}, "seats": [{"action": "<span>Raise<br>24</span>", "bet": 24, "seat": 8}, {"action": "", "seat": 7}]}`

Raising is not different from betting as far as the frontend is concerned, just use the status "Raise" instead of "Bet" and change the 'tocall' amount appropriately.

* End A Round Of Betting

`{"action": {"chipsToPot": 0}, "seats": [{"action": "", "seat": 0}, {"action": "", "seat": 1}, {"action": "", "seat": 2}, {"action": "", "seat": 3}, {"action": "", "seat": 4}, {"action": "", "seat": 5}, {"action": "", "seat": 6}, {"action": "", "seat": 7}, {"action": "", "seat": 8}]}`

Most important is 'chipsToPot'. The 0 following chipsToPot doesn't actually matter, what determines how the pots are displayed is the list of pot and side pot amounts.

* More Dealing

`{"deal": {"board": {"0": "AH", "1": "2C", "2": "6S"}}}`

For the board cards, the position needs to be paired with the code for the card to show.

Suits: "S", "D", "H", "C"
Ranks: "2", "3", "4", "5", "6", "7", "8", "9", "10", "J", "Q", "K", "A"

The Turn:

`{"deal": {"board": {"3": "6H"}}}`

The River:

`{"deal": {"board": {"4": "JD"}}}`